---
linkTitle: Server
Title: Gateway Server Settings
descriptions: Configure settings for the Trustgrid gateway server
weight: 10
aliases: 
    - /docs/nodes/gateway/gateway-server
description: Configure gateway server settings
---

Gateways servers are nodes that are configured to receive connections from other Trustgrid nodes (clients).  These are the only nodes that need to have ports open and listening on the internet or WAN network. 

The server sub-panel provides the settings controlling if a node will act as a server and if so how clients will connect to it. 

## Gateway Server Types

A gateway server can be one of three types:

- `public` - all nodes, except other public gateways, in an organization will attempt to connect to this gateway on the listed IP/DNS name and port
- `private` - allows only allow-listed clients to connect
- `hub` - allows connections from edge nodes and other gateway nodes

## Settings

{{<fields>}}
{{<field "Enabled" >}}
Either `Enabled` or `Disabled`. This determines if the main TLS Gateway server will be started or not. When enabled, the node will listen and accept connections from other nodes on the [Public IP and DNS](#public-ip-or-dns) and [port](#port).

**If this setting is set to Disabled the below settings are extraneous and not used, with the exception of [UDP enabled](#udp-enabled) as it is also a client setting.**
{{</field >}}

{{<field "UDP Enabled" >}}
This settings can be configured on both the [gateway server](../gateway-server) and [gateway client](../gateway-client) sub-panel. 
- On a server, this will determine if the server will listen for UDP tunnel connections on the configured [UDP port](#udp-port).
- On a client, this will determine if the client will attempt to build UDP tunnels to any server with UDP enabled.

**UDP tunnels are only attempted if both the client and the server have the UDP Enabled field set to Enabled**

{{</field >}}

{{<field "Public IP or DNS" >}}
The public IP or DNS name of the gateway. This is the address that other nodes will use to connect to this gateway.
{{</field >}}

{{<field "Port" >}}
The TCP port that the gateway will listen on. This is the port that other nodes will use to connect to this gateway.
{{</field >}}

{{<field "UDP Port" >}}
The UDP port that the gateway will listen on for UDP tunnels. This is the port that other nodes will use to connect to this gateway.
{{</field >}}

{{<field "Max Ingress Mbps" >}}
The ingress bandwidth limit for the gateway. Connections will be throttled when this limit is reached.
{{</field >}}

{{<field "Certificate" >}}
**Optional** When using DNS for gateway connections, you may specify an uploaded [certificate]({{<ref "/docs/certificates">}}) to use for TLS connections. If not specified the certificate autogenerated during activation is used. 
{{</field >}}

{{<field "Gateway Type" >}}
The type of gateway. See [Gateway Types](#gateway-server-types) for more information.
{{</field >}}



{{</fields>}}

After changing any of the above settings you will need to click Save for the changes to go into effect. 

{{<alert color="warning">}}Enabling and disabling the gateway server will require a restart of the node service which will disrupt all node functionality for a brief period.{{</alert>}}

 {{<tgimg src="gateway-server.png" caption="Example Gateway Server settings" width="90%">}}


 ## Gateway Clients

 This section is only used if the node is configured as a [private gateway server](#gateway-server-types). Only clients listed on this page will attempt to connect to the server.  
 {{<tgimg src="gateway-private-clients.png">}}

 ### Add Gateway Clients
 To add clients:
 1. Type part of their name in the "Add Gateway Client" box. {{<tgimg src="add-client-filter.png" caption="Example showing filtered list of nodes" width="50%">}}
 1. Select the desired node from the list. After selecting you should see the node in the table with `Enabled` set to true. {{<tgimg src="add-client-list.png" width="75%" caption="Selected node added to table">}}
 1. Optionally, repeat the above steps with additional nodes to add as clients.
 1. Click Save.

 ### Remove Gateway Clients
To remove clients:
1. Optionally, use the search box to the top right of the table to filter the displayed clients. 
1. Click the black X to the right of the client you wish to remove. {{<tgimg src="delete-client.png" caption="Black X will remove the client" width="75%">}}
1. Click Save.